# JavaScript-API-Design

## General

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/25229823/222909154-d2e43c34-b8ac-413a-8fa5-39bd1cd1ee3a.png)


### When to Use What: REST, GraphQL, Webhooks, & gRPC
https://nordicapis.com/when-to-use-what-rest-graphql-webhooks-grpc/

### Is REST Still a Relevant API Style?
https://nordicapis.com/is-rest-still-a-relevant-api-style/

## WebHook

### Web-hooks Tutorial with Discord and Vanilla Javascript (fetch api)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4Lid7tBr6Y

## WebSocket

### WebSockets Crash Course - Handshake, Use-cases, Pros & Cons and more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Nt-ZrNP22A

## XMPP

### XMPP - Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (with Node JS and eJabberd)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OVN99SgBGkM

### Web Sockets vs. XMPP: Which Is Better For Chat Application?
https://medium.com/@thinkwik/web-sockets-vs-xmpp-which-is-better-for-chat-application-113e3520b327

### XMPP With Node.js
https://ackso.net/post/xmpp-with-nodejs/

## SSE

### An intro to server sent events
https://iabhishek.dev/post/an-intro-to-server-sent-events

### Load Balancing Server-Sent Events (SSE) Backends with Round Robin
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qoEq_Ro1wjU

### Server-Sent Events Crash Course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4HlNv1qpZFY

## gRPC

### gRPC Crash Course - Modes, Examples, Pros & Cons and more
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yw4rkaTc0f8

### Working with Protobufs in Node.js
https://thecodebarbarian.com/working-with-protobufs-in-node-js.html

### How to Easily use GRPC and Protocol Buffers with NodeJS
https://adityasridhar.com/posts/how-to-easily-use-grpc-and-protocol-buffers-with-nodejs

### Node.js: Protobuf, gRPC and Discovery Services
https://medium.com/@FloSloot/node-js-protobuf-grpc-and-discovery-services-fd099a3fe51a

### How to use gRPC and protobuf in nodeJS microservice?
https://medium.com/@saumya.ranjan/how-to-use-grpc-and-protobuf-in-nodejs-microservice-350b153a748f

### Protocol Buffers Crash Course
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=46O73On0gyI

## SOAP

### XML Request and Response with Express.js
https://www.akinjide.me/2019/xml-request-and-response-with-express-js/

### XML, read, send, write: Javascript front to Express/Node.js back
https://medium.com/swlh/xml-read-send-write-javascript-front-to-node-back-167df21c98df

### How to Perform SOAP Requests With Node.js
https://betterprogramming.pub/how-to-perform-soap-requests-with-node-js-4a9627070eb6

### With Node.js: Wrap Backend SOAP Webservices In a RESTful API
https://medium.com/metrosystemsro/with-node-js-wrap-backend-soap-webservices-in-a-restful-api-a96887575046

### Useful Links
[API vs Web Service](https://www.guru99.com/api-vs-web-service-difference.html)

[WSDL](https://www.guru99.com/wsdl-web-services-description-language.html)

[SoapUI](https://www.soapui.org/downloads/soapui/)

[SOAP vs REST vs GraphQL vs RPC](https://blog.bytebytego.com/p/soap-vs-rest-vs-graphql-vs-rpc)

[Comparing API Architectural Styles: SOAP vs REST vs GraphQL vs RPC](https://www.altexsoft.com/blog/soap-vs-rest-vs-graphql-vs-rpc/)
